As Anders has probably told you, the symposium on January 23 is aimed at government agencies in Sweden, and is focused on the use of open source systems in the public sector. We want to show the participants some inspiring examples of the use of open source solutions in various areas. Some of the participants are likely to be biologists but most of the participants are likely to come from different areas entirely. Some of the participants will probably be very knowledgeable IT people, while others are probably going to be more high-level strategy people or decision makers. That is my guess anyway.

Looking at the program and the titles of the presentations, it struck me that it might be better to rethink your and Markus’s presentations slightly. In the original plan, your title was something like “R tools for biodiversity informatics analysis”, and Markus’s title was something similar, with the addition “at the Department of …”.

I think the audience at the symposium on January 23 would really benefit from a general presentation of open science, reproducible open science, and the mission of rOpenSci. As usual, academia is on the forefront, in this case in exploiting the advantages of open source and openness in general. Telling the audience more about the exciting possibilities of working together around open solutions that are so obvious in the R community (and the Python community for that matter) I think would be exciting for the audience that we expect for the January 23 symposium. Since you work for rOpenSci, I am suggesting that we ask you to give that more general presentation of open science, and then have Markus talk more about the R tools for biodiversity informatics (including yours). Markus is a great admirer of your work, and would probably do a good job “selling" your packages and your work in general (just keep in mind that most people in the audience will not be biologists or even scientists).

If you agree to my suggestion, we should change your titles. My suggestion is that your presentation would go first, with a title like “R and Open Science”, while Markus would follow with the title “R tools for biodiversity informatics”, or something similar (covering R packages, Mirroreum etc; you can work out the best coverage for this talk together).
