{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Baskerville;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red26\green24\blue24;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs26 \cf2 Introduce myself.\
Next, talk about why I got involved iwth open science.\
Then how and why I use R\
What is Open Science?\
Data and literature should be open\
People who collect data from publicly funded research are obligated to make these available in the future, especially once they have acheived their objective.\
\
R is great because it is free, the tools can be developed by anyone. And R does a great job talking to APIs. RESTful interface.\
R does great visualization tools. - Ggplot and for mapping purposes there is cartodb.\
\
Slide 1:\
Thanks for having me. My name\'92s Karthik Ram and I am a postdoctoral fellow in Ecology at Cal. I\'92ve been using R since 2003 on and off and was constantly discouraged from using it in favor of SAS since it was more stable, commercially supported and licenses were inexpensive. But as I started working through, there was little help to be sought, I couldn\'92t afford separate licenses for every computer that I was on. I was lucky enough to teach for a professor who gave his students the option of using R. Even though the learning curve was steep, all but one student began using R. That\'92s when I realized the sparse, austere?, command-line interface, which has always turned away non-techy academics could potentially transform the academic landscape.\
\
\
But since I am talking to you today about R in the context of Open Science, I\'92ll start with what that means. Open Science is the idea adopted by a growing number of academics that the outputs of science, and products developed along the way should not be locked away behind paywalls. At the core, the movement supports open access journals, sharing results and data both pre and post publication. \
\
Started with PLOS, now every journal has an open access policy. At it\'92s core, publishing in open access gets cited more. R fits in perfectly with this philosopy with the software being both open source, but more importantly, having a large user-base that can contribute code without too much difficulty.\
SHOW # OF R PACKAGES GROWING ON CRAN.\
\
Another big, but related problem is:\
A) reproducibility. Most research going from lab notebooks to spreadsheets, then gets transformed, corrected before final analysis. These first few steps are lost in the workflow. But now R, with it\'92s powerful and easy tools, makes it easy to keep raw data but transform them for analysis along the way.\
\
}